GOATED Sin Lin.

Course Info: 2 programming sets 20% each (40% total)

Two midterms: open note/book 15% (30% total)

Group Project(27%) No extenstions

    proposol(5%)

    presentation(10%) 11/20 & 11/25 (last two class days)

Final report (12%) 12/9

Attendence(3%)


Launch...

Progress report after 2nd problem set or midterm



Intro to AI:

What is AI? there are multiple definitoins of it like systems that thinklike humans, rationally, behave like humans, and rationally.

Modern Definition: Bramnch of CS Eng and MAth that aims to create machines and software capable of tasks that require human intelligence.


History??: Alan Turing UTM and Turing test or imitation game<<< what do these test do?>

Claude Shannon Information Theory, Notion of Boolean algebra and digital circuits. 
Darmouth Conference (Birthplace of AI) no major concepts were made but it introduced major aspects of AI

EARLY SUCCESS checkers(1952)Learned about weights , and problem solving 

1960-2000 AI Winer issues were limited computation search space grew exponentially and information as we introduced more difficult questions


70's-80's Knowlegde based systems 
    expert systems encodes the domain to form if-then rules

    Wins narrow system in targeted domains
    issues: rules cannot scale outside to reality
    Rules become to complexto create and maintain

2nd winter: 

2010 Ai mainstream: computers faster and cheaper and data become less scarce.Booming in ML

2016-present Deep learning and Reinforcement learning-- created a breakthrough in deep neural networks. 


"Hierarchical Representation learning": representing data and its time consuming 
deep neural netowrks extract features and grabs those features like lines and nose, ears etc to create a face structure or object. To low level featurees like lines and edges midlevel eyes  and high level objects

Forces of AI Big Data larger datasets , Hardware larger model sizes , software


SEARCH Route finding a sequence of actions that'll take us from source to desintations.

Search Algo- search space reduction ording, and simplications of computations


Object Detections: Object localization finding features in an image then use Image Classifcation to predict what type of object the item is.

Image Generations 

Speech Recognition and Machine Translation

Text Generation predicting the next word in a sentence.

Control perform task in a environment this requires 
planning 
multi-agents systems, 
Searching 
Reasoning in Uncertain Environment 
machine Learning 
Computer Vision.

Aritifical Narrow Intelligence vs Aritficial General Intelligence
AI paradox. There are problems hard for humans but Easy for AI. Also there are problems that are easy for humans but hard for AI. this depends on the tasks given to the AI using one of the intelligence.




AI is a broad concept and each subfields 